Do you touch a bit of on laser and vangrath interventions?
It's helpful in that when we think about vangrath interventions, you know there's these big
bulky plaques that can embalize and you get no reflow and issues like that.
And so what we've done is take our laser catheter over the wire, go down, do some laser
treatment, and then put your filter wire down or something like that.
When you're taking a really tight 90-95% lesion in a vangrath, it's hard to get your
filter to pass.
And so if you use your laser catheter, kind of create a channel, oblate some of that plaque,
then you're able to put your filter wire down, do your intervention, and do it much safer.
So I think it's a very good use of laser.
You know, it's a very safe, subgroup to use laser and as well with a very low risk of complications.
I think it's a good one to really utilize.
So they're resting.
What about the use of laser-ath direct to me in bifurcations?
So another great question.
As you know, when we do bifurcations and we need to use f-rectomy devices, we can't do
it with two wires down.
You run the risk of cutting the other wire and things.
And so when we have difficult to cross lesions or we have lesions that are very
calcified out of bifurcation, sometimes it's helpful to use the laser because the laser
is not going to cut that wire, right?
So you can do both limbs of a bifurcation with laser treatments and not risk having to
lose your wire position or damage your wire or something of that nature.
Finally, you know, I know we've been able to get the new laser-ath direct to me console.
But you're going to talk a bit about this and compare this into the old console in terms
of set of the needs of the use.
Yeah, I know.
It's been really amazing the new set up that they have.
I mean, the old system was probably three times the size is the new one.
It was very heavy.
It took five minutes to warm up.
So you know, interventional cardiologist is extremely patient people and five minutes
is nothing to us, right?
I mean, it was awful.
You'd sit there and have to wait.
It was terrible.
And so now you can roll it in much easier.
The console itself doesn't have that warm up time.
So that's much better.
It used to require a special outlet to plug it into which it doesn't anymore.
So now really, you can take your laser catheter wherever you need to go to whatever you
need to do.
It's very easy to do.
It's very easy to set up.
And the whole system itself is great for normalizing it or standardizing it and plugging things
in, it just works fantastic.
It's a huge improvement.
We've noticed our cath lab staff being much more happy, you know, setting that up and
things like that.
And finally, what do you think as a fellow would be advantageous to complete the laser
training course?
Well, you know, a lot of the things we've talked about today, get covered in the laser
course.
It gives you some hands-on experience with the modeling systems.
You really understand your device.
It will go over kind of how it works, the science of it, the different settings of it.
So you get a lot more information than just, you know, kind of what we've talked about today.
You know, ultimately, interventional cardiologies about knowing your gear and your product.
And if you don't know what you're using inside and out, you don't know how to apply it.
And you don't know how to get the most out of that stuff.
And so I think a course will really help hone those skills for laser for any devices that
you use an interventional cardiology.
I think it'd be incredibly important to take sort of that course and get that experience.
In that extra training.
Thank you.
Dr. Sintek, I recently came across your publication looking at the safety of laser in circulation.
You kind of touch upon some of the findings of that paper.
Certainly, no, great.
So what we ended up doing was looking at safety with laser use.
And our calf PCI registry here in this country keeps track of all the PCIs.
And as a part of that, they have a data field that's selected for laser.
And so essentially what we did over about a seven year time period is we pulled all those cases that were coded as laser and looked for safety outcomes.
And what we found was, is that over about 20,000 laser cases that it was very safe,
the overall complication rate.
So dissection, perforation, cardiac tamponon was about 4.2% if you combine those up.
If you didn't use any after-ectomy devices, it was about 3%.
So it was more, but it wasn't substantially more, you know, from a numbers perspective.
What we found was, is that were certain groupings where it worked very well and was very safe.
So this would have been the instant-recent analysis group.
It was very safe.
It was almost protective against those complications when you compare it to other cases where laser was used.
Bane graft intervention is another grouping where it was protective when you looked at other laser cases.
So overall, we were very happy with the results and it showed that, you know, this is a great device to use in the cath lab.
It's very safe to use, especially if it's used correctly.
And it really should be something that we put in our, you know, toolbox to treat complicated patients these days.
Very interesting.